hey guys what up this is going to be the
most entertaining video about the most
depressing topic in the world reading
books and not reading books the culture
of recommended reading want to point out
I got my three beautiful bouquets on
camera not going to happen there when my
girlfriend shows up I guess I'm going to
put one in the bedroom one in the
kitchen something like that spreading
out around the apartment but I put the
put the bouquets on camera partly
because they were mentioned in an
earlier video that I was confessing to
vegan gains that you know it makes your
whole apartment look cleaner when you
get some flowers in there so we got the
new girlfriend coming over we're gonna
we're going to spread the flowers around
you hit a great discussion on chat about
red roses versus white roses if you have
white bed sheet I understand why you
want to have red roses i have read bed
sheet i have bright crimson red sheets
and I I agreed red roses are somehow a
bit tacky I don't know why they just are
I'm not into the culture of red roses
and white rose petals look better on
right bed sheet it is what it is all
right with that romantic footnote aside
this is this is more or less Valentine's
Day right now depending on what time
zone you're in I know it's Valentine's
Day in Hawaii i thought i'd say
somewhere or retention within a few
hours of Valentine's Day the way they
we're doing this most most romantic of
topic um look all the time people ask me
for recommended reading and they're
often surprised at how we're counselors
I am how reluctant I am how very
carefully and rarely I actually
recommend reading for somebody now for
one thing that's a good question who you
are if I'm recommending reading it's for
you and I just do not understand this
culture we have today of recommending
something as a good book for everyone
how can it possibly be most of the books
I really respect and I really value are
going to be meaningless or useless in
somebody else's life now this also comes
in to the pretensions of the culture of
reading itself I'm going to come back to
that
people think something is more
educational just because it's in book
format and it's not you can learn
nothing from reading a book and you can
learn a lot from watching a YouTube
video maybe not this YouTube video don't
get your don't get your expectations up
but there's no reason why the book as a
format would be somehow more salubrious
a more valuable than any other format
but in our culture it definitely is
hallowed as such and this is a bit
problematic I think there was a video
put up by Sargon of Akkad i am not a fan
of served on the back had to almost
needle to stay but I saw this video and
like hath lain to the video he name
drops three famous books in the history
of political science Leviathan by thomas
hobbes treatise of government by john
locke the two treatises of government I
think but John Locke and jean-jacques
Rousseau and again I think this is just
straight-up cultural programming and you
think you few minutes to praise these
books to his audience and really
recommend that he said oh you know if
you read these three books you really
gain such an insight into you know the
apparatus of the state and government
and democracy as it works today and so
on l watching that listen up thinking
god damn that is not true at all and i
would never say that to anyone not even
even if my job in future even if i
became a professor of political science
teaching University students i would not
introduce those books that way because
one day i think you're lying I think
you're hyping these books to people as
if they're really relevant to Paul these
days if they're really relevant to your
life here now in a way that they're not
like you know okay thomas hobbes most
people grossly misunderstand his work
it's misinterpreted you an unbelievable
sent why would you be loved ice them if
you're interested in that period of
history if your address from reading it
in its cultural contacts the vast
majority of that book Leviathan is
really about religion it's at a time
when the conflict between catholic and
protestant was really you know red in
tooth and fang the wars between
Catholics and products
for the control of the future of Europe
and when hobbes himself had his own very
eccentric view of Christianity which was
quote he was closer to Judaism I've just
mentioned his his reading of the Bible
was really based on the Old Testament
and not on the you know revelations of
Christ or what have you and he was
really arguing for his view of religion
most of that book is it's a deeply
religious view of politics in the state
it's totally alien to the the type of
discourse we have today why would you
lie to your audience that way I mean
have you even read the book I wonder I
had professors in University and when
they talked about that same book Hobbes
Leviathan I was convinced they'd never
read it I was convinced that back when
they were a teenager they had just read
a few pages to study for an exam and
they spent the next 20 years there a lot
in their lives lying to their students
and you know representing this book is
something it isn't to me as deeply and
you most of all you're misrepresenting
the books of the person in terms of what
it will mean to them how it's going to
be useful for you in your life right so
I mean I do think the recommending a
book is a big deal it's certainly a lot
more of your time and effort than
recommending a youtube video now just
comes through a funny situation I just
got some positive messages from this guy
called plant heat so that's his name the
name he uses on the Internet is plant
eat but plant eats ridiculed me earlier
before saying in a video he quoted this
out of context and then put it into a
loop and tried to make me look foolish i
said earlier that i do not think reading
books is very important for knowing
what's going on today in the vegan
movement and the book reviews have done
in the last three months really prove
that fact i've done a lot of book
reviews just lately some of them are
currently patreon only i read and
reviewed a bunch of books on politics
including politics within veganism
academic literature on on veganism as a
philosophy movement etc okay and let me
tell you most of those book reviews warn
you don't read the book it's a waste
year um even though this is right on
topic for us note the other side of that
is I could get why we'd be in books that
we're seeing the
the debates that really matter in
veganism as a movement today during the
last five years one of the biggest
debates to explore was the the
ideologies of Gary Yourofsky Gary iraqis
theme was 100% on youtube via the
internet he went on to give interviews
on TV news stations this kind of thing
he did other kinds of activism but the
whole story both Gary Yourofsky initial
philosophy and you know the people who
criticized it and its response to
critics that all unfolded on YouTube now
I am also a critic of Gary Yourofsky he
is pro violence and I'm anti-violence
there are many differences between us
ethically and politically but those
differences are worth understanding
those debates are worth having Gary
Yourofsky also i did a great video
specifically he has this surreal
position although never killing insects
he says you should never even kill an
insect if you're vegan and he goes oh
and I have a position i say look this is
the reality of life on planet earth
vegans do kill insects we're going to
continue killing insects and we also
kill things like rats let's really let's
let's be honest about it you know so
that's another debate I think that
debate is worth having I'm in my own
video on the topic and I have some
quotes from curiosity okay all of that
discourse which is very honest and very
productive and very useful only happen
on the internet if I could quote beacon
cheat on this right it's you can't get
this stuff in a book the world would be
a different place if these discussions
were happening in academic peer-reviewed
literature let me tell you I feel up to
date right now in the last few months I
spent a lot of time looking at the
academic peer-reviewed literature the
journals and animal rights the journals
the academic journals on animal rights
and veganism are really not worth
reading it's not there the action is
it's not there these debates are
happening it's here it's right here on
YouTube and it's also probably on blogs
and other websites that use a written
format that happens Emil there was a
real debate when I was involved footed
studies to what extent were the
you know the formal publications lagging
behind you know what was happening on
the internet because the Internet was
racing ahead really with original
research and very conservative
publications and had a bunch of Buddhist
monks sitting on a council doing peer
review they were lagging about a hundred
years behind more than a hundred
occasion so it happens in some
disciplines that's the case the action
just isn't in a book format so it is
very rare that i recommend a book on
veganism and there was a much younger
activist she's 21 and I saw her posting
on Twitter a stack of books she meant to
read about vegan activism and like at
least two of them were by that
utilitarianism forgetting his name am so
happy so yeah I'm so happy to forgetting
his name Peter Singer yo she had like
two books there by peter singer and I'm
looking at these books thinking man all
this is really a waste of her time so
that's you know it's fine plant eats he
wrote a message back to me saying it's
good he's happy to have a debate with me
in the future he doesn't hate me or
anything but I thought I was really
weird because he had this really
insulting reaction to me using this clip
using this snippet of me you know saying
that reading books is really not it's
really not the medium that's carrying
the message of what's going on in
veganism animal rights today it's not
that important more broadly and more
generally i do think we need to move
past a paradigm that Hallows reading as
inherently sacred or inherently
meaningful reading is only as meaningful
as the book your meat reading let us
look there reading is never going to be
more meaningful than the particular book
you happen to be reading okay and
there's a question of in what way that
book is meaningful to your life it's
just not the case that a book is going
to be useful because it's a book as
opposed to being a movie or a video game
you guys know that I'm very very
critical of people wasting their time
playing video games or watching movies
ultimately I'm just as critical of
reading books so it's kind of sad that
we have these pretensions that lead us
to
you know glorify reading books and
recommend reading books we're really
it's not going to be meaningful or
useful to you or your life so that is
why I am ultra reticent about I'm ultra
reluctant to recommend that people read
books i've got a video coming up i'm
going to eventually finally do a video
but the philosophy of Max Turner I can
tell you why the philosophy of Max
Turner he's not that famous a
philosopher that's wise we're talking
about why that was meaningful in my life
I can talk about why it might be
meaningful in some other people's lives
and certain specialized interest but I'm
not going to sit here and tell you to
read Max Turner it's not this is this is
you know 19th century European
philosophy it's not senators know many
people I spent years and years studying
ancient Buddhist philosophy I can
recommend specific books linked to
specific philosophies that are important
for certain people I'm not going to
figure it say hey this is a good book
everyone should read it and to me that's
fake and it's disregarding the extent to
which the wrong book for the wrong
person is just a waste of their time and
even within those two examples the same
book that might be meaningful to me will
be meaningless to you I think that
reading through Siddha tease the ancient
Greek author is tremendously meaningful
I think it's still today is tremendously
meaningful for many people facilities
okay but I can't even say and it's a
book that was tremendously meaningful to
me in my life um right now my daughter
is still three years old am I going to
say to you I hope one day my daughter
breathes through siddha tease this book
that I think this ancient book of
philosophy and history and politics that
I think its own evil I don't know
depends on what kind of person she turns
out to be depends on what kind of kid
she is depends on what kind of teenager
she is right for all I know you know my
daughter is going to grow up to be a
jock and play basketball in the women's
basketball team but the woman's boxing
team maybe her interests are not going
to go in that direction at all and it
would be really miserable for her if she
had a father who forced her who SAT
there said no this book of ancient Greek
philosophy this meant a lot to me so
it's going to mean a lot to you
even within your own family you know I
think that's [ __ ] but hey what can I
tell you that's how it is in Western
civilization we tend to package up books
with certain kinds of pretensions
certain types of ethical values of what
it means to be a well-educated person
what it means to be a refined person
what it means to have a sophisticated
outlook on life so one generation after
the next we force our children to read
Shakespeare we force our children to
read a pretentious philosophy from 19th
century Germany hagel Hegel's philosophy
of slavery in this kind of [ __ ] yeah
and do we even know why do we know why
we're forcing to read it do we even
really question in a rigorous way how
this is going to be meaningful of their
lives or how it's going to be useful to
them within veganism I think it is a
sign of how much the movement is
changing right now that books written
ten years ago when 20 years ago are now
meaningless and useless to us and I hope
it keeps changing because what we were
doing 20 years ago was a complete
failure hopefully this will fit as a
real future it me up